[Documentation] Add vqe to docs (#59)
pasqal-io/horqrux: docs/vqe.md

# Variational quantum eigensolver

We will demonstrate how to perform a Variational quantum eigensolver (VQE)[^1] task on a molecular example.
VQE boils down to finding a quantum state (a ground state) $| \psi(\theta) \rangle$ minimizing the energy wrt a hamiltonian of interest denoted $H$ :
$$\langle \psi(\theta) | H | \psi(\theta) \rangle$$

## Hamiltonian

In this example, we run VQE for the $H2$ molecule in the STO-3G basis with a bondlength of $0.742 \mathring{A}$. The groud-state energy is around $-1.137$.

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="vqe"

import jax
from jax import Array
import optax

import time

import horqrux
from horqrux import I, Z, X, Y
from horqrux import Scale, Observable
from horqrux.composite import OpSequence

from horqrux.api import expectation
from horqrux.circuit import hea, QuantumCircuit

H2_hamiltonian = Observable([

>   Scale(I(0), -0.09963387941370971),

Author: Yes unfortunately because all the syntactic sugars are in Qadence.

>   Scale(I(0), -0.09963387941370971),

Reviewer: Ah OK. Maybe add a comment about it.

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="vqe"

init_state = horqrux.product_state("0011")
ansatz = QuantumCircuit(4, hea(4, 5))
print("Number of variational parameters: ", ansatz.n_vparams) # markdown-exec: hide

```

## Optimization

We will optimize the variational parameters of our ansatz using the Adam optimizer. Below we show how to set up a train function.
We first consider the non-jitted version of the training function to compare later the timing with the jitted-version.

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="vqe"
# Create random initial values for the parameters
key = jax.random.PRNGKey(42)
init_param_vals = jax.random.uniform(key, shape=(ansatz.n_vparams,))
LEARNING_RATE = 0.01
N_EPOCHS = 50

optimizer = optax.adam(learning_rate=LEARNING_RATE)

def optimize_step(param_vals: Array, opt_state: Array, grads: dict[str, Array]) -> tuple:
    updates, opt_state = optimizer.update(grads, opt_state, param_vals)
    param_vals = optax.apply_updates(param_vals, updates)
    return param_vals, opt_state

def loss_fn(param_vals: Array) -> Array:

>     """The loss function is simple the expectation value."""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    """The loss function is the sum of all expectation value for the observable components."""
```

    values = dict(zip(ansatz.vparams, param_vals))

>     return jax.numpy.sum(expectation(init_state, ansatz, observables=[H2_hamiltonian], values = values))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return jax.numpy.sum(expectation(init_state, ansatz, observables=[H2_hamiltonian], values=values))
```

print(f"Initial loss: {loss_fn(init_param_vals):.3f}") # markdown-exec: hide

> def train_step(i: int, paramvals_w_optstate: tuple) -> tuple:

Author: param values and optimizer state

    param_vals, opt_state = paramvals_w_optstate
    loss, grads = jax.value_and_grad(loss_fn)(param_vals)
    return optimize_step(param_vals, opt_state, grads)

# set initial parameters and the state of the optimizer
param_vals = init_param_vals.clone()
opt_state = optimizer.init(init_param_vals)

def train_unjitted(param_vals, opt_state):
    for i in range(0, N_EPOCHS):
        param_vals, opt_state = train_step(i, (param_vals, opt_state))
    return param_vals, opt_state

start = time.time()
param_vals, opt_state = train_unjitted(param_vals, opt_state)
end = time.time()
time_nonjit = end - start

print(f"Final loss: {loss_fn(param_vals):.3f}") # markdown-exec: hide

```

Now, we will jit the `train_step` function with `jax.lax.fori_loop` and improve execution time:

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="vqe"
# reset state and parameters
param_vals = init_param_vals.clone()
opt_state = optimizer.init(param_vals)

start_jit = time.time()
param_vals, opt_state = jax.lax.fori_loop(0, N_EPOCHS, train_step, (param_vals, opt_state))
end_jit = time.time()
time_jit = end_jit - start_jit

> print(f"Time speedup: {time_nonjit / time_jit:.3f}")

Author: `12-14`

> print(f"Time speedup: {time_nonjit / time_jit:.3f}")

Author: Added a mention in the docs about the expected speedup
